
　“The critical movement initiated by Locke and culminating with Hume reflects
the national character. The strong point of the Enghsh mind is its vigorous grasp of
facts; its weakness is its comparative indifference to logical symmetry. Englsh poetry
is admirable, because poetry thrives upon a love of concrete imagery; whilst English-
men have always despised too indiscriminately the dreams of a mystical philosophy
which seems to be entirely divorced from the solid basis of fact. In metaphysical
speculation their flights have been short and near the ground. They have knocked
pretentious systems to pieces with admirable vigour; they have been slow to construct
or to accept systems, however elaborately organised, which cannot be constantly
interpreted into definite statements and checked by comparison with facts. As one
consequence, we perhaps underrate our own philosophical merits. Comparing Locke,
or his successors, with the great German writers, we are struck by the apparently
narrow, fragmentary, and inconsistent views of our countrymen. If the merit of a
philosopher were to be exhaustively measured, not by the number of fruitful principles,
but by the variety and order of his applications of his principles, Locke and his
successors would occupy a low position. If the courage which passes over a difficulty
in order to frame a system be more admirable than the prudence which refuses to
proceed beyond clearly established principles, they must be content with a secondary
rank. Nor is it doubtful that our dislike to pretentious elaboration often blinds us
to the merit of the more daring speculators whose width of view has stimulated
thought even whilst covering many fallacious generalities. Yet I believe that the
merits of our shrewd and sober, if narrow and one-sided, speculation, will be more
highly valued as we recognise the futility of the cloudy structures which it has
dissipated."

　（ロツクによつて唱道せられ、ヒユームに至つて最高頂に達したる批判的運動は英國々民性
を反映する者である。英國思索家の長所は、確と事實を捕ふるにあると共に、其短所は比較的
論理の整然たるに無頓着なる邊に存して居る。詩は具體の影像を愛するが爲に榮える。故に英
詩は群を拔いて卓絕してゐる。之と同時に英人は、常に事實の牢たる基礎を全く離れたる如き
神祕哲理の夢幻的なるを侮蔑してゐる。其侮蔑し方が無差別過ぎると思はれる位である。純正
哲學に於ける彼等の羽搏きは短かきものである。且つ地上を去る事甚だ遠からずと評しても差