was brought into requisition his extensive assortment of perfumery -- oil of Venus,
Spirit of lavender, atar of roses, spirit of cinnamon or eau-de-luce -- among others --
with which the various articles of attire were severally and carefully sprinkled. Then,
as now, there were in vogue certain sweetly-scented soaps which were largely patronised
by fashionable beaux, and with a cake of one of these he freely lathered his
hands and face. He next dabbed his face with scented powder till it was as white
as that of a miller, and plastered his hair with scented pomatum, and having perfumed
his pocket-handkerchiet with rose or jessamine water, tied his cravat and adjusted
his periwig, he finally sat down to dine about three, either alone or in company
with his friends. The repast concluded, he buckled on his sword, brushed his hat with
great care, gave it the‘cock,’placed it with much ceremony on his head, and for a
brief space surveyed himself in the mirror. When quite satisfied with his appearance
the beau took up his cane, ordered a sedan-chair, and proceeded in state to some
coffee-house in the neighbourhood of St. James's (generally White's), where for about
an hour he aired his political views, or tickled the ears of the company with choice
samples of his wit and pleasantry intermingled with jests from the newest play or
the gist of the latest scandalous story that had been circulated. Then this‘killing
creature,’having first smeared his upper lip with snuff, hailed a chair and was borne
along to the door of the playhouse, where, instead of attending to the performance
(his mind would have recoiled with horror at the thought!), he wandered from pillar
to post, now laughing and chatting with his friends, and then pulling out by turns
his watch and pocket-handkerchief. When the play concluded the beau usually repaired
either to the coffee-house or to the residence of some boon companions, with
whom he spent the remainder of the night, lending a hand at crimp, ombre, loo, or
whist, over bowls of punch and bottles of claret, until the small hours of the following
morning -- not unfrequently being conducted reeling home by a friendly watchman,
bribed with sixpence for the purpose.”

　（極ざつとした所を話すと、ジヨージ期の歷とした紳士の生活は先づ、每朝午前十時に始ま
ると云つて好からう。彼は此刻限になると自分の化粧部屋で、訪問者を引見する。紳士に取つ
てはそれが隨分と骨の折れる大仕事なので、彼はあらかじめ元氣を付ける爲にcogue of Nantsey