had much to endure, and constantly heard things which should not have been said.
Remember, however, that ladies of the present day must hear things bawled aloud
in the street which ought not to be said in their hearing. What happens? They do
not hear them; they not only make as if they do not hear them, but the words pass
through their brains as a disagreeable object passes before their eyes, making no
mark and disappearing. I say that the coarseness of the period was mainly caused
by the separation of the men from the women in their natural amusements. It is
nothing to the point that there were assemblies, gardens, and places of meeting;
the fact remains that the national habits kept the great mass of the men apart from
the women every evening in their taverns, coffee-houses, and clubs, and that this
separation caused a great deal of the common coarseness. This position is proved
by one fact. When the taverns and coffee-houses ceased to be the resort of the
better class; when merchants, lawyers, and responsible persons generally, left off
frequenting the tavern; when they began to spend the evening in their own homes
and in the society of their wives and daughters, -- then language purified itself,
stories and jests previously laughed at became imposible, the old ribaldry disappeared
and found shelter in holes and corners, and society, from the highest to the
lowest, became distinctly cleaner and purer in language. I believe, too, under the
new influence of women, that it became cleaner and purer in reality. It is true that
life became also much duller. The life of the bourgeois suburban resident, the man
who goes to a dull, though innocent, home every evening all the year round, is infinitely
more dull and monotonous than that of his great-grandfather, whose evenings
were spent at the tavern, where every day there was something new said or told,
and some new jest to hear.”(London tn the 18th Century pp. 27-67.)

　（然し無暗に言ひ過ぎると弊が出る。今述べたのは男子に就いて述べたので婦人は預かり知
らずと云つても差支ない。男子は大抵、婦人と別々になつて、男子のみ塊まつてゐたから、こ
んなことも苦情が起こらずに濟んだのである。否寧ろ歡迎されて居たのである。男子となると
每日料理屋や倶樂部や珈琲店に行つて數時間も過ごした。所が男子を尤も獸的にする最捷徑兼
最良法は女拔きの野郎頭を揃へるに限る。だから先生方があゝ亂暴になつたのである。尤も當
時の婦人だつて、男の爲めに隨分つらい辛抱もしたらうし、又聞くに堪へぬ言葉を男から聞か