hot yet furnish the means of comfortable subsistence. The prices paid by booksellers
to authors were so low that a man of considerable talents and unremitting industry
could do little more than provide for the day which was passing over him. The lean
kine had eaten up the fat kine. The thin and withered ears had devoured the good
the season of rich harvests was over, and the period of famine had begun.
All that is squalid and miserable might now be summed up in the word Poet. That
word denoted a creature dressed like a scarecrow, familiar with compters and spunging-nouses,
and perfectly qualified to decide on the comparative merits of the Common
side in the King's Bench prison and of Mount Scoundrel in the Fleet. Even the
poorest pitied him; and they well might pity him. For if their condition was equally
abject, their aspirings were not equally high, nor their sense of insult equally acute.
To lodge in a garret up four pair of stairs, to dine in a cellar among footmen out of
piace, to translate ten hours a day for the wages of a ditcher, to be hunted by bailiffs
from one haunt of beggary and pestilence to another, from Grub Street to St. George's
Fields, and from St. George's Fields to the alleys behind St. Martin's church,
to sleep on a bulk in June and amidst the ashes of a glass-house in December, to die
in an hospital and to be buried in a parish vault, was the fate of more than one
writer who, if he had lived thirty years earlier, would have been admitted to the
sittings of the Kitcat or the Scriblerus club,………"

　（斯う云ふ事情だからして、ジヨンソンが文學的生活を營み始めた當時にあつて、有力なる
權勢家の庇護を受ける望みは文士に取つて皆無の有樣であつた。去ればと云つて、樂な暮しの
出來る程社會公衆の庇護もなかつたのである。書肆の作家に拂ふ原稿料と來たら實に苛いもの
で、立派に才學のある人だらうが、如何に勤勉な男だらうが、漸くに其日々々を過ごして行く
と云ふ體裁であつた。（聖書に所謂）瘠せた牝牛が肥えた牝牛を食つたり、枯れた穗が實のる穗
を呑んだと云ふ樣な物騷な時節であつた。豐かな收穫の季は過ぎ去つた。來るべきは飢饉であ
る。あらゆるみぢめとみすぼらしさは詩人の二字で優に代表する事が出來る樣になつた。詩人
の二字を聞いて、目に浮ぶのは、案山子の樣な着物を着て、何度となく監禁所、拘留所の門を
潛つて、牢屋へ這入るなら、キングス、ベンチが好いか、それともフリート街の方が好いか、
ちやんと心得てゐる黑人である。（註、此時分に借金をして返せないものは執逹吏の管理する
spunging-houseと云ふ所へ監禁される。夫でも始末がつかないと本式にcompterに送られる。