the manner of his brethren, in the praises of his sirloin of beef. ‘Beef,’ said the sage
magistrate, ‘is the king of meat; beef comprehends in it the quintessence of partridge,
and quail, and venison, and pheasant, and plum-pudding, and custard.’ When Peter
came home he would needs take the fancy of cooking up this doctrine into use, and
apply the precept, in default of a sirloin, to his brown loaf. ‘Bread,’ says he, ‘dear
brothers, is the staff of life; in which bread is contained, inclusive, the quintessence
of beef, mutton, veal, venision, partridge, plum-pudding, and custard; and, to render
all complete, there is intermingled a due quantity of water, whose crudities are also
corrected by yeast or barm, through which means it becomes a wholesome fermented
liquor, diffused through the mass of the bread.’ Upon the strength of these conclusions,
next day at dinner, was the brown loaf served up in all the formality of a city feast.
‘Come, brothers,’ said Peter, ‘fall to, and spare not; here is excellent good mutton;
or hold, now my hand is in, I will help you.’ At which word, in much ceremony,
with fork and knife he carves out two good slices of a loaf, and presents each on a
plate to his brothers. The elder of the two, not suddenly entering into lord Peter’s
coneeit, began with very civil language to examine the mystery. ‘My lord,’ said he,
‘I doubt, with great submission, there may be some mistake.’ What, says Peter, you
are pleasant; come then, let us hear this jest your head is so big with.’  ‘None in
the world, my lord; but, unless I am very much deceived, your lordship was pleased
a while ago to let fall a word about mutton, and I would be glad to see it with all
mv heart.’  ‘How,’ said Peter, appearing in great surprise, ‘I do not comprehend this
at all.’ Upon which the younger interposing to set the business aright, ‘My lord,’
said he, ‘my brother I suppose is hungry, and longs for the mutton your lordship has
promised us to dinner. ‘Pray,’ said Peter, ‘take me along with you; either you are
both mad, or disposed to be merrier than I approve of; if you there do not lke your
piece I will carve you another; though I should take that to be the choice bit of the
whole shoulder.’ ‘What then, my lord,’ replied the first, ‘it seems this is a shoulder
of mutton all this while?’ ‘Pray, sir,’ says Peter, ‘eat your victuals, and leave off
your impertinence, if you please, for I am not disposed to relish it at present.’ But
the other could not forbear, being over-provoked at the affected seriousness of Peter's