countenance; By G—, ‘my lord,’ said he, ‘I can only say, that to my eyes, and fingers,
and teeth, and nose, it seems to be nothing but a crust of bread.’ Upon which the
second put in his word: I never saw a piece of mutton in my life so nearly resembling
a slice from a twelivepenny loaf. Look ye, gentlemen, cries Peter, in a rage; ‘to con-
vince you what a couple of bind, po:

nt, wilful puppies you are, I will use
but this plain argument : by G—, it is true, good, natural mutton as any in Leadenhall-
market ; and G— confound you both eternally if you offer to believe otherwise.' Such
a thundering proof as this left no farther room for objection; the two wnbelievers
negan to gatner and pocket up their mistake as hastily as they could. ‘Why, truly,
said the first, upon more mature consideration—’ * A:

says the other, interrupting
him, now 1 have thought better on the thing, your lordship seems to have a great
deal of reason, Very well, said Peter; here, boy, fill me a beer-glass of claret;
heres to you both with all my heart.’ The two brethren, much delighted to see him
SO Teadily appeased, returned their most humble thanks, and said they would be glad
to piccige his lordship. That you shall,’ said Peter; ‘I am not a person to refuse
you anything that is reasonable ; wine, moderately taken, 18 a cordial; here 1s @& #iAss
a-piece for you; it is true natural juice from the grape, none of your d—d vintner's
brewings.’ Having spoke thus, he presented to each of them another large dry Crust,
bidding them drink it off, and not be bashful, for it would do them no hurt."—Sec.
1V.

　　（一日ピーターは市の助役の所で御馳走になつたが、此助役は弟共と同じ樣に、しきりに牛
の腰肉を賞め出した。賢明なる助役の言によると、「牛は肉中の王である。牛は鷓鴣、鶉、鹿、
雉、を始めとして、プツヂング及びカスタードの精分迄悉く含んでゐる。」ピーターは家へ歸
つてから、此論法を捏ね上げて、腰肉がないから、黑麴にでも應用してやらうと考へ出した。
それで弟を呼んで斯う云つた。「麺麭は命の本だ。麺麴のなかには麴麴があるばかりではない。
牛、羊、犢、鹿、鷓鴣、プツヂング、カスタードの精分がすつかり這入つてゐる。のみならず、
適當な水分さへあるから完全無缺なものだ。しかも其水分は通例の水つぽいものではない。麴
をうまく混ぜて酸酵させて、結構な液體にして、それを麺麭の中に一面に浸み込ましてある。」
此結論に從つて、翌日の午餐には、恰も市の正饗よろしくと云ふ仰山極まる儀式を用ひて、黑
蠅麴を膳に供した。ピーターは云ふ。「さあ始めるが可い。遠慮なしにどし〳〵遣つて吳れ。